who was the last movie star used to be
back then movie stars true movie star
you wouldn't do a talk show on TV you
would avoid TV like the pl Jack
Nicholson you would never see him on a
talk show he'd do one interview that's
part of that protection of exclusivity
there was a mystery to him yeah yeah so
that when you went to the theater Lally
what makes a movie star is you you don't
know too much really about their life so
you your own life on them yeah yeah
definitely that's what makes a movie
[Music]
star hello everybody I have the
privilege today of speaking with actor
Dennis Quaid he flew into scotdale to do
the show in person um I saw a screening
of his new film coming out in August end
of August Reagan last year and uh uh
thought it was a classic American
production very much enjoyed it speaks
of a very significant time in the
history of the world really the defeat
of the Communist Empire which is
something remarkable and and
and extremely relevant to today again
when the same sorts of ideas are making
their reemergence and so what did we
talk about what are we going to talk
about about well Dennis's career the
challenge of playing
Reagan uh the the purpose of drama the
what would you say it's calling to us to
see the world through the eyes of other
people so that we can expand the way
that we look at things and we can expand
what we can understand we talk about
Hollywood um we talk about the future of
the music industry we talk about
political attitudes and how they affect
the entertainment world
join us for all that so I think it was
about a year ago that I was in LA and
Mark Joseph showed me an early cut of
Reagan yeah changed from uh from then
well I like I liked it I I'll tell you
why I liked it um I like the fact that
the film concentrated on Reagan's
activity as an anti-communist yeah you
bet I thought that was wise all of his
life yeah right right all of his life
and and so I thought that was extremely
interesting and I thought it was a wise
choice to concentrate on that
specifically because that that's the
right what would you say that's the
central story with him as far as
pertains to the world that is what
he you know almost single-handedly
really because if we' had another
president in there it would have been
business as usual he defeated communism
yeah the Cold War he defeated it in its
last iteration it's making a lovely
comeback at the moment well we
didn't uh he didn't help them no he
certainly didn't no no I I agree you
know yeah and and I thought the film did
a very good job
of concentrating on what truly was
Central about his presidency and I think
that is what was Central and it was
daring and as you said he had committed
his whole life to it and so that was
interesting I also I also thought the
movie was interesting um from a
narrative perspective because it kind of
hearkened it was a classic Hollywood
movie like it hearkened back to me for
me to the kinds of movies that were made
in the 1950s and the 1960s like it's
unabashedly pro-american but not in a
way that hits you over the head but it's
also it doesn't have that kind of
cynical bitterness that's characteristic
of much of the Productions of popular
culture really since the 1970 and so
that was nice to see and and it it was
it was pleasant to be carried away by a
movie that was it wasn't like an Oliver
uh a movie that Oliver would do like
about Nixon right yeah right right right
right so so how did you get involved in
that project and why were you interested
in it
I took a meeting I think this is like
2017 that I heard these people they
wanted to play Reagan and I was just
like sure right because I didn't think I
look like Reagan or the only thing we
had in common was that we were actors
and
uh uh so I went and had a meeting with
Mark and so it was a process you know
because I uh he was my favorite
President I will say that yeah and um
I'd Liv through those times and knew
what they were he was the first
president uh I did vote for Jimmy Carter
the in
76 regretted it and but in 1980 I voted
for Ronald Reagan my dad was a huge
Reagan fan and I voted for him and went
home and my roommate at that time uh
from Texas he said who'd you vote for
and I said Ronald Reagan he said you are
kicked out of the hippies yeah
definitely that was like yeah for sure
man you're not the hippie Club anymore
so you're the how old were you when you
how old were you when you when you voted
for Reagan I was
uh
26 26 okay so you were old enough to
have some sense but you could have
easily still been a hippie so I wouldn't
have voted for Reagan when when I was
back then I was still been too entranced
by the blandishments of the left so why
was it that at that time was a yeah yeah
well like I said I voted for Jimmy
Carter about that and then uh after
which reminds me very much those times
remind me very much of what's going on
today there was this malaise that uh
Carter had his M
speech uh you know he uh the country was
had lost confidence in itself you about
who we are we was kind of accepted that
we were a nation in Decline uh you know
it was after Watergate it was after
uh Vietnam the oil crisis the oil crisis
uh and yeah the the hostages Jimmy
Carter was like we tried to be and play
nice with the Soviets during that time
as you know as far as peace Jimmy Carter
did a great job with uh in the Middle
East with Egypt and Israel but he uh uh
when it came to the Soviets it was like
we gave away the B1
bomber for nothing in return and we kept
for in return just to show our Goodwill
I guess and the way the real politic
works in the world they just were they
were doing the biggest military buildup
and were making they were going into
Africa they were go all over the world
they were making great strides uh into
Central America and the like and
uh Reagan who had always been you know
this kind of cold warrior and great
community Communicator came along and
and told people to like pick yourself up
you know there's a brighter day ahead
and uh it was the perfect time for him
right he also had a very Stark message
which was that and very forthright which
was unapologetically that the Soviets
were an evil empire yeah which they
certainly were and so he put his finger
on that perfectly and so yeah that was
all by Design he didn't talk to the
Soviets for the first six years of his
presidency because they kept dying on
him right right that's right they were
they were they were El they were putting
forward like one 90y old after another
right there was a sequence of them that
lasted about six months in office right
but it been but up until his presidency
it had been
appeasement uh with the Soviets I think
uh Kennedy did a really great job of it
Nixon was actually no matter what you
think of him uh personally uh he was is
probably had the the most knowledgeable
uh world affairs president we've ever
had and but Carter uh he tried to be
nice guy he was he was an agreeable
person the same way he personally got
together Sadat and and bean yeah which
he did a great job of but no you the
thing is being empathic and warm and
compassionate that works real well with
people who are honest decent
and yeah right and at the local that's
exact right that's right that's a within
family ethic right with the real thugs
it's not the right approach they think
you're a sheep these players on the
world scene they're all they're badasses
and that's one of the attractions that I
had for Reagan at least you know he's a
badass but he's my badass yeah you know
yeah yeah and a principled a principled
person a principled person right which
was remarkable thing also to pull off I
would say in Hollywood because I'm sure
that he was subject to the same
temptations that people are generally
subject to in
Hollywood yes and
uh I'm sure gave into quite a few of
those Temptations you know he's it was a
human being but you know that's he
always picked himself up he was um you
know his his movie career he was a I
think he was disappointed yeah in his in
his film career he was he was uh he was
a be movie actor and you know there the
films were never quite up to what they
should be you know it it's kind of like
he could have been John Wayne but John
there was already John way yeah right
the Nish was already that was there and
uh you know that he was married to Jane
Wyman whose career went like this and
his just kind of stayed yeah stayed
there and he uh
became vice president and then president
of the screen actor's guild yeah uh
during that time you know because his
career was was fading really
and it
he it's there that the his real fight
against communism started you know even
though it was kind of rumored you know
you got to be crazy but they really
after the Soviet Union fell come to find
you go to the archives come to find out
they really were in the in our unions
especially in Hollywood and uh yeah well
it's it's he had Reagan actually had
physical scars on his back from fights
he got he got seriously beat up in in a
a brawl at uh the union hall in fact
from that and he had scars on his back
and so he he didn't like he didn't like
communism yeah yeah yeah well it's easy
for us well I think still we're blind to
the threat I mean I see in all of this
University Uprising that's occurring now
and all of these Bad actors who are
protesting constantly in inner cities
and setting up encampments and building
these like independent cities there's a
there's a stream of thought underneath
that that's well it's it's it's very
much akin to the Marxist stream although
it's you get in you get into the society
into the unions or whatever it is you
start creating Mayhem yeah and Chaos you
put one at this corner this corner that
corner and then you just start creating
this Mayhem and from that you start
confusing people they feel like they
can't do anything about it and it starts
to grow on its own yeah and Reagan
didn't want to expel uh Communists or
even the Communist party you know he's
principled in that way because he felt
like democracy can handle it in fact
that's what he testified at you know at
the
at Congress during during that time
during the time of the Red Scare and all
that I guess that's what we're trying to
figure out right now too whether
democracy can handle it democracy can
handle it it really it what it takes is
for is for people to be informed be
aware and and to uh you know it's slow
it's slow to move but uh people got to
get involved yeah yeah and I do feel
that pendulum happening in this country
now that people are waking up you feel
say I've had enough because it affects
them in their house on their their house
in their neighborhoods you know uh just
the
the the the the structure of and the
substructure of society you know kind of
breaking down you know little by little
and uh where you don't feel safe anymore
you don't this is uh this is not the way
I remember it so how did you figure that
out in your early in your mid 20s I mean
I would suspect that the mill you you
were in was pretty radical radically
Progressive radically liberal like why
how how was it that you came to be
oriented in that more conservative
direction or particularly in the
anti-communist direction I'm I'm an
independent I've never been a a
republican I've never been a Republican
party or the Democratic party and I've
I've voted both
ways uh my life according to what I
thought the country needed at that time
you know Republicans and Democrats is as
you know they need each other yes yeah
the the Republicans need the Democrats
because of this social
thing that's out there to to to kind of
lead the way progressively you know we
move along as a society and and the
Democrats need the Republicans to kind
of keep little governor on that make
sure that we grow the right way and that
you know that we don't leave behind
principles and and things that are at
the Bedrock of who we are so it's it's
been both ways so let's go let's go back
to to the to to Reagan per se so you had
an you had a meeting you said in
2017 and you weren't sure that that was
a part that was right for you I thought
I thought when I watched the movie that
you embodied Reagan remarkably well I
well thank you I appreciate that but at
the time yet tell you the truth what
really is like this fear went up my
spine oh okay because here he's like one
of the most recognizable figures in the
world right it's a big part to screw up
yeah and uh you know
that so I was I was really hesitant
about it and you know I also wanted to
make sure it was done right and and you
know what it was and uh I
so uh
I they arranged for me to go up to the
library which I went to and from there
we went to uh I met his son Michael as
well and we I went to the ranch and it
was when I went up to the ranch you know
the what was the Western White House
back then above Santa
Barbara and went up five miles to the
top of the mountain five miles of the
worst Road in
California and can't believe the Queen
of England actually tried to go up she
was a tough cookie that that woman and
uh you get to the top and opens
up
and I realized that Reagan was not a
rich man because this place is is like
it's nothing special and how special it
is I mean the house itself was maybe
1,200 square ft you know uh it they had
a king-size bed everything was left
exactly as they left it and it's not a
it's not a place that you can tour it's
you know it's a private home and they
had a king-size bed but it was two
single beds that were zip tied together
uh you know all of
the the refrigerator to stove was uh ge
cuz he worked for GE you know I'm sure
he got a deal on that uh you could tell
that he had done all the work there
himself just like the legend had said
and but there was a humbleness to it at
the same time but he was not a rich man
he made a lot of people rich and uh but
uh he was really who he said he was
m and that was the thing that really
kind of convinced me at the time I
started thinking well you know we're
both actors we both have a sunny
disposition kind of optimistic about the
world and um there's something about him
though that yeah that that's funny with
with you that that Sunny disposition
because you're you're not a kind of
wide-eyed deer in the headlight sort of
guy you know it's it's very interesting
to see that Sunny disposition combined
with something more like what would you
say traditional masculinity and that's
likely what Reagan managed too right cuz
he was a he had enough backbone
obviously to stand up to the Communists
in the unions and verify yeah yeah right
exactly and he meant that yeah and so
yeah but yeah those things and then
there was
also uh in in getting into him because
as an actor what really fascinates me
about acting even more and more so is is
what makes people tick and who are they
behind what you think you
know uh it that's what you know the
motivations go back way back there was
something in Reagan that was unknowable
I come to find out and even those that
were close to
him uh would say that that I don't don't
even know if Reagan was aware of it but
there was something the great
communicator there was a very private
place in there that you could not breach
I'm sure that n
uh knew what that was but he was a very
very private person underneath at
all yeah well I wonder you know because
of the remarkable role he
played there's something singular about
that right that that what would you say
integrity and vision that enabled him to
see the true nature of the Communist
threat early to fight that locally and
to learn learn how to do it and then to
take that battle onto the international
stage right to make that the the focal
point of his presiden yeah even when it
was really not the
issue even like most people were over
here about that he was and that's what
makes a great president is when they can
they can point out because they have all
the
info and they can say it's here that we
need to go yeah and convince convince
people people that you have what it is
to go in the right direction remind them
of the principles and um not just the
the uh the issue of the day right well
that's something to get to get folks
right exactly well that's something like
a prophetic Spirit right that ability to
see the current situation clearly and to
see into the future and to put your
finger exactly in the right spot and it
is it isn't the case generally speaking
that American presidencies are founded
on say a foreign policy Vision right
that's foreign policy is important
obviously but it's usually not Central
and it's much easier for a president to
default to
some fast payoff local issue and to do
that continually rather than to fight
the battle he fought which he really
fought for decades right literally for
decades first to say no to the Soviets
but his take was so brilliant and it was
just disguised and because his idea and
it wasn't originally his idea it was you
know was it was uh from a lot of reading
research and uh just time
spent
um he thought the answer was to bankrupt
the Soviets right their economy is uh
minuscule even today through to what
ours is they had done so much military
spending and they were really you know
things were so bad over there for the
for the Soviet people you lines just to
get food and this and that at that three
hours came he comes up with Star Wars
which didn't really exist he got the
idea from the movie you know about
lasers you know that are going to shoot
down missiles in space you know it
didn't exist and Russians knew it didn't
exist at least 90% mhm they knew it
didn't exist but it was that 10% that
Reagan made him think about it he didn't
he didn't back off of it at all yeah and
so but it that and that's what that's a
weird blend of fiction and that really
tore them up you know and uh so they
were on this military spending and and
finally they just you know it just
toppled that's really what brought the
Soviet Union down yeah well that's
that's a remarkable clima to a life
spent that you know that originated in
local fighting with the Communists in
the unions in Hollywood yeah yeah so how
did you prepare to like how much work
did you do biographical work and so
forth I don't know exactly how you would
prepare a lot of it I I yeah a lot of it
I'd live through the I'd live through
the times that had a lot to do and I I
was a history buff to begin with so like
you know I I remember the stuff but I uh
I watched YouTube with
uh really great because you have all of
those you have everything you can go
back and and uh and see uh and you know
what do you get to I work outside in a
lot so I work on the uh physical how's a
person walk talk and and then from that
it goes inside and I realize why that is
for instance like Reagan had like a cook
smile yeah right it's like yeah oh kind
of H like that and there was uh
and after you do that a while you
realize well why is that and it's
because that's why you looked like him
in the movie that's so cool there's got
to be there's some muscles that are
deadened in his face yeah from what uh I
don't know but that's you know that
leads you to the the inside of of of a
person of where they kind problem and
the way he walked the way he uh uh the
way a person Grooms themselves the way
they you know
the the image they put out and then
there's the but really when you get down
to that's the outside and you have all
the news stories and stuff but I talked
to a lot of people who knew him
personally yeah and
um yeah
and I think that's really where it
Formed I didn't want to do an
impersonation that's the thing that
scared me with anything of you know
doing an impersonation what's the
difference can your savings weather
another economic storm think about what
you've put away for the future inflation
can render cash worthless and even real
estate can crash as it did in 2008
during times of economic uncertainty or
Market volatility investors tend to
flock to gold as a safe haven asset its
value tends to increase during turbulent
times providing a buffer against Market
downturns this is why people are
flocking to gold now and why Birch gold
is busier than ever Birch gold
understands that navigating financial
decisions can be daunting that's why
their dedicated in-house Ira department
is there to guide you every step of the
way Birch gold is committed to
addressing your questions and concerns
promptly their team is always ready to
provide answers and Clarity whether it's
about fees taxes on rollovers or the
timing of the process they are here to
ensure you feel valued and well informed
text Jordan to 98 9898 to talk to to one
of birch Gold's experts and claim your
free info kit on gold you'll learn how
to convert an existing Ira or 401K into
a tax sheltered Ira in Gold the best
part is it doesn't cost you a penny out
of pocket just text Jordan to
898988 9898
today the F that impersonation is an act
you know it's like something you'd see
on Saturday night the getting down to
who the person is the real person is
quite another thing a a personal side it
really humanizes them yeah makes them
singular and I I like
to uh want to get a part of a real
person of which I've played many I'd
like to
tell uh tell it their story from their
point of view yeah yeah you know not
well not from the outside but what we
thought of them and not for me to really
I try not to comment too much I try to
tell it from their point of view what is
it like the question is what if I me
were this person yeah in this situation
right well that's also what you're
transmitting to the audience right that
opportunity
so
what part of the reason that we go to
see movies is
because by watching the people on screen
and by noting their characterization we
can adopt their aim and as soon as we
adopt our like our emotions Orient
themselves around aim and so if you can
embody a character yeah exactly if you
can or if you can characterize a
person's aims then you can invite the
audience to adopt their perspective
right and that means they can live being
Reagan for example in the course of the
mov why we go to the movies absolutely
and so way have okay so so how long did
you play Reagan and what was the effect
of that on you like I'm I'm curious when
you embodi these characters so deeply it
has to it because you're really
occupying a different perspective it has
to change you I would presume um you
know I find myself like never really
asking that
question
um I it's something to me it's about
learning
about it's about learning about myself
yeah I don't know how exactly how to
sometimes articulate that um but and I
leave
I leave I have learned to just leave the
character at the end of the day at the
end of the take in fact just like go do
something else right right because I've
already it's kind of like osmosis I've
already done all all the work and now
just let the let the subconscious work
right right so you can leave it see this
one of the things that you learn as a
therapist is to because you're listening
to people and you're trying to adopt
their perspective but if you take that
home with you then you you can't it over
time they have happened to me you know I
learned that when I played Jerry Lee
Lewis cuz oh yeah well to tell me about
that because I I didn't believe that uh
yeah at the set to tell you the truth
and that was Great Balls of Fire yeah it
was Great Balls of Fire and so you know
I wound at at the end about six months
after uh it came out or maybe a year
yeah I was in rehab oh cocaine School I
see I see and and what and and there was
a manner in which that was directly
attributable to playing that character
yeah you know make you manic like what
no well I was kind of already kind of
you know
uh you uh I was already kind of along
the path and and that just uh jeredy
Lewis is like everything on
steroids right man that's how you played
him too I mean that's a very high energy
character man yeah he was the guy one of
probably yeah what a great pianist and
uh and yeah performer yeah he was one
that I got to like hang
around uh he was on the set just about
every day oh yeah in fact when we shot
at Memphis and he was uh over my
shoulder going you get it wrong son like
uh after it takes especially the music
stuff but you know he was also very
generous he would uh he was one of my
piano teachers I I didn't play Pi before
that you know just like Chopsticks and
he uh was one of my teachers and uh you
know getting that left hand really was
the key to Jerry Lee Lewis because it's
a very athletic move of being able to
keep that up and I had a year to prepare
for it
and and and I was on cocaine so I spent
12 hours a day at the at the piano you
know during that time so and uh um
but it's uh I still play you know I
continued afterwards and uh well that's
a good habit you picked up yeah that was
the that was the good that came from it
because it was you know that was a great
gift from him and he was he could be
really so generous of spirit and then he
could be like a 14year old schoolyard
bully at the same time you know and
Trump's like that what think Trump's
like
that um cuz you know I've talk lot of
people to know him and they talk about
his generosity and his kindness in
person but he's got that 13-year-old
schoolyard bully thing which also well
that's the that's the that's the the the
bully that's you know out there uh about
what he believes and I think he's a very
principal to down at the bottom of it
yeah and uh but uh I I think he can be
bullish yeah well it isn't obvious it
was in the construction business man you
got
business you got to be hard for all that
stuff because you know it's like it's
all Mafia you got you got to watch it
yeah that's for sure you take it so he
built a building for a friend of mine in
Chicago like a multi hundred million
dollar building he brought it in under
budget and before scheduled and that was
in Chicago and that's you know that's
but he's a he's very he is he is very
sweet at the same time he he could be
could be that I you look at this kids
you know it's
um he did a great job raising his kids
you look at it they are they themselves
very principled and and um a great
relationship with them like that right
right yeah I mean in a way I mean you
can't say the same thing about
Reagan there was you know we Tred not to
be like like a a love letter for this
you know cuz it was human at the same
time
and
he you know his he didn't have the
greatest relationship with his
kids you know was he too preoccupied
well his son you know his youngest son
Ron Ron uh takes every T opportunity he
can to uh talk against them and to uh
really try to tear apart the the legacy
of his father and his mother mhm and uh
Michael Michael and he that's who he had
uh they have a they have a good decent
relationship he and he and Michael do
and you know Patty it's uh I can't
really uh I can't speak for any of them
really and I'm sure they all have their
personal reasons for that but you know
that he wasn't around much because
working in the studio he was working for
GE was always on uh he comes from that
generation that you know you grew up and
you're pretty independent and on your
own as as a kid you know like the way I
grew up my
parents uh it wasn't like the '90s that
were your you know helicopter parents or
are are really you know the people were
living at home till they were 25 and
stuff like that you were you know a lot
of cases you know you grew up on a farm
you were like 14 15 like you need to go
you know find your own life well you and
so it's but anyway that was that was the
relationship I think it was there was a
distance there I think with his with his
kids yeah well it it's hard for men to
strike a balance between doing what they
need to do in the world and being around
enough for their family now I mean I I I
struggle with that all the time because
I'm always traveling and stuff and I try
to be there as much for my kids but you
know parental guilt follows you no
matter what and it's just always there
no matter how uh good a parent or
present parent you might you might be so
what do you make of his flaws like how
would you characterize them you you you
spent a long time inhabiting his skin
like we talked about Reagan as someone
who had a long-term Vision who was very
committed to it who was very good at
communicating that in a way that was
compelling and who well who was one of
the main players in the devastation of
the Soviet Union right I would say him
Alexander Solan niton and the pope were
the oh maybe you could throw leesi in
there too as a as an additional
contributor they're not the only people
obviously major
players we it was like that was in
concert all with the Pope and with with
Le valenza that was it was all in
concert with the United States they
wouldn't have been doing what they do if
you hadn't had the support from the
United States that that they had
you know and
uh um but
uh the uh the flaws with everybody's
everybody's flawed you know I think like
early in his like his movie career I
don't think he I don't think he believed
in himself uh so much when when he came
to that's why he accept more second rate
scripts yeah I think he was just out to
like um work for a living you know and
it takes you got to um you got to be
willing to wait for things at the same
time I mean that must be my like I've
done stuff for money and he wish I had
done that luckily I've been able to get
to get through it yeah and um you I also
remember uh like in
Iceland when uh you know the final
meeting with uh or the the meeting with
gorbachov about we were going to like
dism
nuclear weapons and Gorbachev's had said
you know we'll dismantle all nuclear
weapons just give up Star Wars yeah and
Reagan said no yeah right and Star Wars
didn't even really exist and uh you know
and he' offered his he had offered to
gorbachov will share the technology with
you so that we both have it and said to
know that and but Reagan said
no and I thought at that at that time
his presidency I thought that
um there's that old codger coming up you
know that won't that won't Bend yeah and
that you know I didn't think it was
finessed uh the right way I mean I
wasn't there but you know went down and
then also it's I think he delegated a
lot which was kind of a strength and
that he was an adman you know as
president he showed
us what kind of the president he was the
best Kennedy was also great at it but as
far as being representing a president as
an adman you know as an image he was
really good out but he delegated a lot
and I think
he wasn't maybe like an iron iron uh
Contra he wasn't able to really keep his
um finger I and you know to really be
aware of what was going on was delegated
and I don't think he had Direct
knowledge of it you know once he said
okay I like these guys yeah
then AIDS was another thing that I think
he really uh you can fault him with he
made the wrong decision on AIDS he uh
really portrayed it from the start as
um that a punishment from God on for the
sin of being gay because it was really
recognized as a gay disease or uh if
you're a drug addict
and and you know I I he was in that case
I think he was out of touch and um
missed the boat you know on
that but you know it's he's still a man
of principles but you know some times uh
people have their faults nothing there
is no perfect Well it's worse than that
in some ways there's no Perfect Crime
well also sometimes I learned this from
reading nche it was the first time I'd
really thought about it that it isn't
exactly obvious that someone's faults
are clearly distinguishable from their
virtues I mean you look at Trump for
example right he's got that bully aspect
and he's really good at it like he's
like the world's best 13-year-old bully
he can nail you with a nickname and
he'll use what you said and then you
turn around make a nickname of it he'll
make fun of of handicap people he you
know it's like there's sobody there been
so many times where I just want to say
please be why why do you have to go
there part of that it's I I can't help
but think that part of that is also what
makes them intimidating to people like
the the dictator of North Korea exactly
you know and it's so like how do you CU
if he was agreeable like Jimmy Carter
Jimmy Carter was a very nice man by all
by all appearances and by all reputation
but he's not the sort of person that
like a real Psychopathic leader is going
to take seriously whereas Trump like and
maybe this is also why he could deal
with the mafia types in the construction
industry in Chicago it's like you have
to have a touch of it's like Harry
Potter you have to have a touch of the
devil inside you in order to understand
what the devil's like even our
allies take care of their self-interest
first yeah you know and if that doesn't
happen to coinci side with us they're
still going to look after themselves
first and then you have uh Saddam
Hussein you you know you the Ayatollah
you have you know uh some of uh you have
Putin you
have uh the Chinese they
are these people they're smart these are
really smart people and they know real
politic and they are ruthless when it
comes to their agendas
and they go these have been going on a
lot longer than one president been these
guys are in there for life and they've
and you take uh a little Kim over there
in North Korea this is like the third
generation since uh you know of the
grandfather the father and the son and
the son and uh they you know they're
they're moving on these things this not
just talk from them yeah you have to
take them yeah well and you need it
looks to me like need someone with a
certain degree of far as it's like let's
all be so understanding and everything
they love that yeah yeah yeah they love
that stuff absolutely absolutely
absolutely well this is the problem with
a kind of a naive agreeableness is
that trying to get along with people
works really well unless you're dealing
with the shark in which case it doesn't
work at all all you're doing is laying
yourself open to be ripped to shreds
yeah and this the way it's always been
and you're going to make things worse
yeah by if you're trying to avoid war
you're going to create one yeah because
there's just going to be this red line
that that they you know they come closer
and closer to if you keep them over
there I say don't cross that yeah yeah
but you keep them if you know if you
don't back up what you
say then they'll take advantage of it
yeah well I think it's a remarkably well
I think Trump accomplished two things
that were truly remarkable and I think
very much
under appreciated
Isis yes okay we could throw Isis in
there I was thinking I was thinking no
Wars and I was thinking the Abraham
Accords because abrah ACC he should have
got a all all this stuff that's
happening right now would not be
happening if the Abraham Accords had
been signed yeah because I mean that's
in a way that goes Way Beyond what
Carter did although what Carter did was
incredible but it was like a real true
continuation of that of of Saudi Arabia
because they
were devoted to wiping Israel off the
map up until this point yeah yeah yeah
so so so let me ask you this a little
bit what was the second thing um oh no
Wars in Abraham Accords is what I was
thinking was his fundamental
achievements like those are both major
achievements of Peace yeah which is not
necess it's certainly not what anybody
would have predicted at the onset of
Trump's presiden everybody thought that
uh Reagan was going to be a warer he was
called that throughout his presidency no
matter what you know and it especially
when he was like saying no to these
Soviets you know it's like oh the don't
don't they going to have a war but
that's really what kept us out of War
yeah yeah definitely definitely
definitely yeah well the 80s were uh
they were an intense time I mean people
people were more terrified of nuclear
war in the 80s than we're terrified now
of climate change good reason I mean
there was there was at least two
incidents where it was like this close I
know I know I mean they were seconds
away from pushing the button it turned
out to be a flock of geese or you take
uh the Korean uh airliner yeah you know
that shot down those are scary
absolutely absolutely they absolutely so
what's it been like what's been the
consequences of your political
engagement maybe your political stance
in relationship to your career in
Hollywood uh I am who I am and yet uh
like I said I you know I
I'm I'm an independent I really truly am
an independent you know I voted for
Obama once I voted for Clinton once you
know I voted for Ross pero once I voted
right you know uh
um uh so it's
it's I why would we were doing Reagan uh
you know that was we were doing it in
2020 and that was you know during Co and
stuff and they tried to cancel me twice
tell me about that uh once was over
a I was doing a podcast around that time
you know and uh uh I forgot what what
Outlet I was having an interview with
it's right when covid started happening
and Trump was you know in those meetings
you know uh on television every day you
know giving updates about what was
happening remember those times and uh
you asked me like what do you how do you
think Trump is
handling uh you know the crisis I said
well you know at least he's there every
day he's you know comes out and
it he's there every day may not you know
be making
uh saying the right things or this or
that but you know it's he's there every
day and
uh and that's reassuring you know to see
your leaders out there that they're
doing something about it and and and
over
that uh you know the you know they were
trying to like they blew that up
into that was one time and then while we
were doing the film there was this false
story that came out this was was
uh that I had taken like
$400,000 from uh the CDC through Trump
to do
a commercial uh for the vaccine or
something like that which was totally
false false narrative and how I you know
my son was calling me up about like hey
man you're going to get canceled over
this as like people you know was
like and uh so you know but I didn't get
cancelled but well it was untrue to
begin with
so um do you have any idea why you did
why you didn't get cancelled like did
you do something right or do you like
people get cancelled so why didn't it
happen to you when because storms kind
of I don't know I I I don't know it's a
it's a I went on Instagram immediately
and you know exposed it yeah and you
know but right so there was smoke but no
fire so that's helpful yeah I don't know
maybe it's
I like I I'm really on neither neither
side is left and right I come from a
time when you had conservative Democrats
and Liberal Republicans and their
agendas were not so far apart
really and um now it's become this deep
wide
Valley and well it's they're about 5050
so it's hardly to get anything
done starting a business can be tough
but thanks to Shopify running your
online storefront is easier than ever
Shopify is the global Commerce platform
that helps you sell at every stage of
your business from the launch your
online shop stage all the way to the did
we just hit a million orders stage
Shopify is there to help you grow our
marketing team uses Shopify every day to
sell our merchandise and we love how
easy it is to add more items ship
products and track conversions Shopify
helps you turn browsers into buyers with
the internet's best converting checkout
up to 36% better compared to other
leading e-commerce platforms no matter
how big you want to grow Shopify gives
you everything you need to take control
and take your business to the next level
sign up for a $1 per month trial period
at shopify.com jbp go to shopify.com jbp
now to grow your business no matter what
stage you're in that's shopify.com
jbp yeah it's a weird thing you know
from I've spent Fair bit of time in
Washington and a lot of time talking to
Democrats and Republicans and um I've
had more success talking to Republicans
frankly it's been easier for me to talk
to them and I don't think it's because
I'm
particularly it's certainly not
initially conservative in my orientation
although I think I've become more
conservative in some ways the the
Democrats
their fundamental sin as far as I can
tell is that they can't draw a boundary
at all between the mainstream Democrats
which are the majority and the minority
of
radicals are controlling absolutely well
and these are exactly the same people as
far as I'm concerned that Reagan was
facing off against in the 1950s in
Hollywood it's exactly the same thing
and like I've asked 50 Democrats that
I've talked to when does the left go too
far and I've never got a straight answer
from any of them and that's that's the
God's honest truth right it's like well
obviously the left can go too far right
I mean remember the Soviet Union
remember ma China it's like they went
too far when I asked RFK that he said I
don't want to have divisive campaign
really brilliant man but you asked him
what well I asked him when the left goes
too far and he said I don't want to run
that kind of divisive campaign it's like
well you know the radicals are pulling
your party to the left to in a major way
and maybe it's time to draw some
boundaries like for me I'm not a fan at
all of the equity move the idea of
equality of outcome that's like that's a
catastrophic idea it eliminates
individual difference and why would you
do that especially if you're interested
in diversity it's like can't be quality
of outcome if you want people to be
different like those things don't go
together and you're going to compare
people on absolutely every Dimension and
you're going to insist on equality
you're going to wind up
handcuffing and uh you know basically
coddling people where they they can't
get ahead
because you know life's tough for
everybody yeah around here and I
definitely totally believe in a safety
net for socially you know that wasn't
originally part of the
Constitution what it was what the
government is supposed to provide but
you know I definitely uh do believe in
that uh but
uh
and but you there's some government
sponsored programs they you go back like
Social Security these things that were
meant to help people you go back to the
19th century and there was like nothing
yeah you know you had like this is where
all this stuff started where you had the
Vanderbilts and the Morgans and the
Rockefellers and everything and there
was the Carnegie there was this no uh
checks and balances on wealth they were
Carnegie was you know rivaled the the
the government himself I mean you put
them all together they they were uh they
had more cash than the government did
and there was no checks and balances on
that a lot of people was they wind up
then with you know up here and then down
here and so I think you know some of the
things that uh came in to being you know
social networks and the Democrats can't
take credit for all of them no no you
know Teddy Roosevelt was very you know
Progressive uh it was Republican and um
Lincoln of course and uh you know things
and but uh at the same time you go you
can go too far
[Music]
about and what is the
point in the end it's seems to me when
it goes too far it's when it's not about
what they're talking about it's about
power yeah yeah it's it's totally just
about power don't care if you don't care
what you're tearing down if you look at
the political Spectrum like a
distribution between left and right as
you get farther out on the fringes you
get out of the political I think
entirely is that you get into the domain
of people who are using the political
for nothing but power and they are very
they're exactly the Psychopaths that we
were talking the Marxist agend
agenda you know create chaos and move
into that people used to yeah and it's
all about compassion but actually what
it's about is power right yeah
compassion disgu the Democrat I the
Republicans have done it uh as well get
know I wasn't really very proud of the
Republican Party back back in the 90s in
in a
sense they
played kind of
the the personal they like the the way
they
were with Clinton
and that it was like they weren't
working together like they could have
been working together and it it seemed
like to me like a power move on the
Republican
well back back in the 990s you know you
go into the 80s and into the
90s so I just did a last year I did a
seminar on Exodus on the story of Moses
Moes and Moses is the archetypal leader
and his fundamental Temptation and flaw
is power right so it's always the case
that in the political
realm the Temptation is to default power
and to corrupt Enterprise like with
Clinton you know this he did something
which is not a
crime but because he lied about it this
then they go into like the Republicans
PS and they they impeached him uh you
know impeached him and that was you know
a play for
power uh you know
uh yeah they failed ultimately and that
you know times were so good and Clinton
Clinton also was very good about
uh you know two years into his
presidency he was was like a duck he
wasn't he wasn't going to make it for
the second election cuz times are bad
and yeah that turned he he was so
pragmatic and so smart
that he basically
absconded the Republican
agenda popped it down and went State of
the Union speech said the era of of of
welfare in this country is over you know
and well that's how he won the second
election and he was he was very
pragmatic person let me return to
Hollywood if if you don't mind um
seemed to me that Hollywood took a
walloping blow with covid and then the
strike and like one of the things I've
noticed about myself is I used to go to
movies all the time I to theaters I love
going to movies and I've gone to very
few movies since covid it's kind of like
I don't know if I got out of the Habit
it's something like that
partly I used to know where to get
reliable reviews for upcoming movies
like I was in the Stream I knew what was
coming out of Hollywood I made plans to
go see the movies right that all
disappeared and now I don't know how to
get back to that but I think and you're
wondering is it because of my
age must be yeah yeah well that could be
too although see I don't know or is it
just that way well I well I I also don't
know that and and of course the media
landscape is fragmented too and so it's
hard to figure out what sources you can
rely on the way they advertise movies is
nowhere near what it used to be used to
be just like an ad in the newspaper yeah
and and that was enough yeah and then it
became like TV as and audiences could
smell a movie yeah right it was like so
surprising it was just like I remember
for me personally uh breaking away when
that came out it was was no advertising
or anything like that and were driving
to the theater you know to go to go for
the you like the opening of it you on
that Friday yeah and there's a line
around the block like well people are in
the movie they well that's that's the
thing is that these things are very
fragile you know is that we never know
makes a whole Enterprise work and if
people are movie fans they're in the
movie culture they track it and if you
break that it's like that's gone yeah
well yeah okay so you that's gone uh you
don't see Roger eert on television
anymore these there was a whole culture
that went with it that everybody watched
one the movies coming up and like you
know uh laying them out there what
they're about and and all that and yeah
you know and you knew months in advance
really you know great debates on on what
they were about and uh so so how do you
what how do you view the current reality
and the potential future of the film
industry are there still Stars it's
that's the thing who was the last movie
star well from what I've been able to
understand the only star truly
standing de cael or a Cruz that's going
too far back Leonardo Leo I mean last
movie they're still out there they do
occur yeah they're out there but they
also my sense too is that and I don't
really know what to make of this that
they're are they The Last of a Dying
Breed well you know the new is like it's
gone
from it's gone to social media yeah
that's where the new movie stars are I
mean Justin Bieber the first star to
created on YouTube yeah you know not the
nowhere near the the traditional way
yeah of doing it and that actors now are
the same way they have their their
Instagram uh page they you know self
advertising and uh but used to be back
then movie
stars like in the you know growing up
and really until the 80s 90s true movie
star you wouldn't do a talk show on TV
you would avoid TV like the play Jack
Nicholson you would never see him on a
talk show he'd do one interview in a
prestigious magazine whether it be time
Playboy right whatever it was right that
was that's part of that protection of
exv and you would you know some guy
would spend a couple of days with him or
something but you really wouldn't there
was a mystery to him yeah yeah so that
when you went to the theater Lally what
makes a movie star as you go to the
theater they are a mystery you don't
know too much really about their life so
you imprint your own life on them yeah
yeah definitely that's that's what
happens yeah you know you see them for
something inside
you yeah and that's what makes a movie
star well you actually don't want to
know much about the person life of an
actor and now it's like well it got to
be that you just do everything yeah
about everybody yeah and that brings
them down to earth and that's not good
if you're a star well it it doesn't
create mystery yeah right put it that
way I wonder too how much of it is the
fact that like when you and I grew
up being on television was like that was
a remarkable and unlikely occurrence to
be personally on television even to know
someone who was on television the
bandwidth was so narrow and then the
movies were above that it was easier to
be on TV than on the movies but now
everyone is on TV all the time yeah
right and so that that that's another
borderline between the public and the
actor that's disappeared it's like
everybody is videoed from the time
they're young there's no going back and
this way the world has and and you know
good things come out of it good things
what do you see that's good coming out
of it well for one thing there's this
there's really a broad communication in
the Z guys people have taken over their
own stories yeah and like you could be
like me and choose not to
participate very much you know I I I
mean I have Instagram page I have a
Facebook page and I you know I kind but
I uh you know I didn't grow up with it
so it seems like a real chore to me yeah
and uh right it's not your culture yeah
and I like face to-face communication
and and I like this this you know this
is great because it's
it's it's uh it's a real I I feel like
I'm uh this that is one good thing about
today as opposed to then is that you
could do an interview like with a
magazine and you know somebody was about
to do a job on you Absolut because they
kind of feel like they build you up you
know you have this fall and then you
have the comeback the thing but like
with this it's unfettered yeah and I get
to represent myself yeah yeah yeah well
you YouTube's great for that and
podcasts are great for that and they
really reward unfitted communication
like the people I've talked to anybody
I've talked to on my YouTube channel who
politics or is false they get
slaughtered yeah like if they say it
comes out very quickly find out who
people are yeah you can't hide so much
yeah well that's Joel Rogan told me he
said you know you can tell if there's
anything to anyone after about 20
minutes yeah because you can well people
who are Hollow they're exhausted
especially in a podcast like Rogan's
which is three hours long it's like
there better be some depth to you to get
through that conversation in an interest
in manner for three bloody hours they're
kind of like you know let's see what
happens like 30 years from now but you
know uh some of this stuff is going to
come back to haunt people you know I
mean some of the things that I did and
thought or whatever you know back in uh
my teens 20s man I'm so glad it's not on
you that's for sure man I feel exactly
the same way I can't
imagine if you're always trying to stay
healthy while on the go if you're on the
lookout for products to boost your
immune strength and gut health you need
to check out Arma armra is the gift that
keeps on giving it'll help strengthen
your skin lungs and gut barriers
optimize your microbiome and activate
cellular performance to revive whole
body Health armor products are not just
effective they're also your trusted
companions they're clean safe and have a
solid foundation of extensive research
manufactured under the most stringent
testing and quality standards in cgmp
and FDA certified facilities are as a
brand you can rely on everyday chemicals
pollutants pathogens and process
ingredients pose a threat to our mental
and physical well-being the need for
protection is more pressing than ever if
you want to give armor a try they have a
special offer for Jordan's listeners
right now you'll receive 15% off your
first order go to tr arm.com Jordan or
enter Jordan checkout for 15% off that's
TR ym a.com Jordan TR arm.com Jordan or
enter code Jordan
checkout you know I remember most of my
adolescence and my adolescent friends as
really a nonstop parade of stupid
decisions they should be able to make
those stupid decisions in private right
that's for sure man the last thing I
would have wanted was video records of
that right for it to be distributed
around the school I can't imagine like
it was it was a a a a difficult enough
Enterprise is trying to negotiate the
weird social world of adolescence
without having to be absolutely
terrified that some goddamn stupid thing
you did was going to be permanently
instantiated in the minds of everyone in
your town God I I just can't imagine
what that would be like terrible
terrible yeah and you can't just move
away from it because it's well that's
right that's rights you well that's
right well one of the wonderful things
about human memory is that we forget
yeah right the remembering that's not
a miracle like things happened and so
now you know it it's like well can you
forget can you put it behind you well
not if it's permanently recorded yeah
yeah no that's just that's not good tell
me what you're working on now and what
you have in the future maybe what you're
excited about on the film front um well
I've uh I've started uh a production
company with my wife and a business
partner and uh make fil films that that
I really believe in and that we all
believe in you know as a company and uh
you know kind of based
on uh certain movies in in my career
like you know like to me like breaking
away the right stuff the rookie you The
Parent Trap the you know it's a brand
basically and that I want to to do and
uh part of that I get with have a thing
now Diamond Back which is a film I
hopefully we're going to be shooting
this year uh that very much like a a
movie of the from the 70s that I and uh
that I really believe in what's the plot
of diamond it's it's it's uh you see
like Thunderbolt and light foot it's it
or a really uh a great s pack and Pa
movie it's like that I see and it's
modern at the same time it takes place
in the 60s true story this kid who was
in the Marines you know stationed in
quanico gets out of the Marines he's
just his wife died while he was in the
Marines it and they wouldn't let him go
home you know she try to cancer and he
just you know he's young and he's just
like it's sort of like you know Oswald
you know he got out he was a marine he
got out and you know uh these guys to
get out of the military and they just
kind of like ramble around they're kind
of uh they don't they don't have a path
he wanted to Rob at a bank really smart
kid uh wound up robbing a bank robbed
and then robbed two banks in the same
day same town well for a penny for a
pound went to uh you know and when he
was being sentence he got caught it was
like in the desert it was one of these
chases through the desert which is like
a modern Western just so fantastic and
uh
he told the judge when he was sentence
that just give me 20 years because it
doesn't matter because I'm going to be
getting out I'm going to break out and
then he did then he got caught again
then he broke out again and he
eventually got and there was this one
cop that was chasing him and uh who
became like a father son thing and uh
you he got involved with this with this
case they wound up on like the third
time
um they shot each other in the desert
and uh right so you go to 60s Adventure
you got a western thing going on it's
the anti-hero it's it's it's an
anti-hero uh you know the rebel hero
turned anti-hero role that which is very
reminiscent of the movie movies of the
of the 70s are you good at evaluating
scripts yeah I've read enough of them I
know by
page page 30 will really tell you I mean
I might be 15 I'll go where is this but
P page 30 if it hadn't happened yet it's
it ain't going to happen and that's how
I choose movies I read a script and I am
an audience member yeah with a first
time experience can you imag the story
yeah I can yeah and it's funny how like
every movie I've ever done it's the
script yeah in that description part
uhhuh but
um um you can certainly elevated from
there but basically it's the story
that's what many what really gets me is
the story how many movies have you done
I think we're getting up towards uh I I
know it's at least 120 but it might be
150 I don't wow wow yeah and what what
percentage of those do you
think are good well well I wasn't
exactly or live up to what I thought
they would be uh yeah that you're that
you're that you're particularly pleased
about in ret oh I I yeah probably I'd
say maybe 20% oh yeah oh yeah yeah maybe
then there's you know there's that those
ones that are just really close to me I
have different reasons
for uh loving some of the movies
that that's different from an audience
because was like like I watched myself
in a film and I remember it has so much
to do with what was going on on in my
life at the time uhhuh uhhuh you know
what I mean so in the scientific
literature the best predictor of quality
so let's say the impact of a scientist's
work on other scientists that's a good
measure of quality the best predictor is
quantity right so there's a real tight
relationship it's very difficult to do
anything of note without doing a lot of
things yeah right so you're going to
that's true if you a lot of them are
taking chances you know some of them
some of them more financial
uh um uh was reason motivated yeah uh
but uh you know Tred to do things I've
never had any kind of strategy in my
career except to try to do as many
different types of things as possible
right I typ cast myself right as as a
character in a genre and whatever that
broadens what you're able to do too well
the thing that's my interest
it's like what makes people tick you
know what's this something you know the
best things there something that really
scares you because fear is a really
great motivator like Reagan for example
it's a really great motivator when does
the movie come out when does it comes
out August 30th yeah yeah are you
excited about it I'm really excited
about it yeah I you know it's going to
be distributed widely we went through a
process in the editing of it as well
yeah that
um that got to a place that I'm really
happy with it oh good tell you the truth
yeah oh good oh good I wonder how much
it's changed since the screener I saw
last year you have this you have the
script you have the the movie you shot
then you had the movie you edit yeah
yeah no kidding that's where it really
happen that's for sure man yeah yeah
something to be able to edit well that's
where you really get the point of view
yeah and you point at the story yeah
yeah yeah all right sir is that it
that's it for this side for everybody
watching and listening I'm going to
continue this conversation behind the
daily wire plus platform for another
half an hour so you could join us there
is there anything else you want to there
was one other thing that I'm working on
which is uh uh the name of the company
our company is Bonny Dale by the way
that's my mother's maid name or her
middle name and uh the I'm working on
happy face right now uh Paramount that
is
it's I it's just I'm playing a serial
killer
oh yeah happy face one from Canada by
the way oh yeah well we have the best
serial killers yeah you do yeah you
really do killed uh that combination of
nice and evil that's a that's a
particularly Canadian thing yeah this is
It's really about he killed like uh
eight women over five years in the 90s
but yet he was a doting father and it's
really about his
relationship it's really about her her
relationship what's his name do you
remember her relationship with her dad
Jesus I won't tell you who it is Happy
look up Happy Face
Killer oh yeah yeah yeah so what's it
like to in haveit a role like that it's
so much
fun you're a bad
man all right sir Keith jerson thank you
very much so anyways as I said everyone
um join us on The Daily World plus side
I think I'll walk through Mr Quaid's uh
autobiography and find out you know what
set a on role to be an actor I'd like to
find out about also about why that's a
family affair because it is with the
quides and quite remarkably and
successfully and so there's an
interesting story there so if you're
inclined to join us on the daily Weare
plus side please feel free to do so uh
thank you to the film crew here and
Scottdale for making this possible thank
you very much for flying in I'm very
much looking forward to seeing how the
Reagan film does are have you run into
any distribution problems with it is it
is it going to be widely distrib
no's resisting that no no it's it's
going to be widely it's going to be I
think uh 3, or 3500 theaters oh great
great great great well I wish you all
the luck with that like I it's not like
we shopped it around uh you know all
these years it was just we kind of
waited till we got the film where we
wanted then shopped it it seems with all
the agitation on campus and all the
politics that's in the air and the
upcoming election in November that
August might be a hot time to release it
well I well I one of the things was I
didn't want it to come out in an
election year and yeah uh definitely
didn't and then um it's coming out now
an election year and turns out it's
perfect time for it to yeah yeah yeah
seems Seems like it might be seems like
it might be all right say hello to Mr
Johnson for me we'll do all right all
right thank you everybody for watching
and listening and uh say Anora
[Music]